[Masonry] Second Possible Solution of Masonry Component (#27439)
mui-org/material-ui: docs/src/pages/components/masonry/masonry.md

---
title: React Masonry component
components: Masonry, MasonryItem
githubLabel: 'component: Masonry'
---

# Masonry

<p class="description">Masonry lays out contents of different sizes as blocks of the same width and variable height with configurable gaps.</p>

Masonry maintains a list of content blocks with a consistent width but variable height. The contents are ordered by row. If a row is already filled with the specified number of columns, the next item starts another row, and it is added to the shortest column.

{{"component": "modules/components/ComponentLinkHeader.js", "design": true}}

## Masonry

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/ImageMasonry.js", "bg": true}}

> > `<MasonryItem />` can receive not only `<img />` elements but also `<div />` elements as shown in the following demo:

Reviewer: Assuming it's not just `img` and `div`
```suggestion
> `<MasonryItem />` can receive not only `<img />` elements but any element such as `<div />` as shown in the following demo:
```

> > `<MasonryItem />` can receive not only `<img />` elements but also `<div />` elements as shown in the following demo:

Reviewer: The `>` is used for quotes. But these are paragraphs introducing the demo so I don't think we need to use `>` here. The "as shown in the following demo" also sounds bit redundant since all of these paragraphs are part of their specific demo (heading).

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/BasicMasonry.js", "bg": true}}

> You can configure the number of columns taken up by each `<MasonryItem />` as shown in the following demo:

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/DiffColSizeMasonry.js", "bg": true}}

> > In order to use server-side rendering, you can pass the height of the content of `<MasonryItem />` as shown in the following demo:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> In order to use server-side rendering, you should pass the height of the content of `<MasonryItem />` as shown in the following demo:
```

---
title: React Masonry component
components: Masonry, MasonryItem
githubLabel: 'component: Masonry'
---

# Masonry

<p class="description">Masonry lays out contents of different sizes as blocks of the same width and variable height with configurable gaps.</p>

Masonry maintains a list of content blocks with a consistent width but variable height. The contents are ordered by row. If a row is already filled with the specified number of columns, the next item starts another row, and it is added to the shortest column.

{{"component": "modules/components/ComponentLinkHeader.js", "design": true}}

## Basic Masonry

`<Masonry />` is a container for one or more `<MasonryItem />`s. `<MasonryItem />` can receive any element including `<div />` and `<img />`. Also, it is important to note that each `<MasonryItem />` accepts only one element.

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/BasicMasonry.js", "bg": true}}

## Image Masonry

> 

Reviewer 3: Anything specific to images that could be mentioned in the description?

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/ImageMasonry.js", "bg": true}}

## Columns

By passing `columns` to `<Masonry />`, you can configure the number of columns of your masonry.

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/FixedColumns.js", "bg": true}}

`columns` accepts responsive values:

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/ResponsiveColumns.js", "bg": true}}

## Spacing

By passing `spacing` to `<Masonry />`, you can configure the spacing between `<MasonryItem />`s. It is important to note that `spacing` is a factor of the theme's spacing.

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/FixedSpacing.js", "bg": true}}

`spacing` accepts responsive values:

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/ResponsiveSpacing.js", "bg": true}}

## Column spanning

> By passing `columnSpan` to `<MasonryItem />`, you can configure the number of columns taken up by each `<MasonryItem />`.

Reviewer 3: Best to be honest in the description about the obvious limitation of this approach: 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/357702/127913711-7280f1f8-9df4-4ce9-bfaf-0a7435bd6d3b.png)

(Not sure why the right border gets cut off in Codesandbox)

Author: I agree. I explained its limitation with a demo. The border cut-off is appearing on codesandbox because html's `box-sizing` is not set to `border-box` while MUI demo page has.

Author: I resolved it in this commit: https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/pull/27439/commits/ac7bf9dc9ea8dbfb60dbacf96a63a99427ff00b1

---
title: React Masonry component
components: Masonry, MasonryItem
githubLabel: 'component: Masonry'
---

# Masonry

<p class="description">Masonry lays out contents of different sizes as blocks of the same width and variable height with configurable gaps.</p>

Masonry maintains a list of content blocks with a consistent width but variable height. The contents are ordered by row. If a row is already filled with the specified number of columns, the next item starts another row, and it is added to the shortest column.

{{"component": "modules/components/ComponentLinkHeader.js", "design": true}}

## Basic Masonry

`<Masonry />` is a container for one or more `<MasonryItem />`s. `<MasonryItem />` can receive any element including `<div />` and `<img />`. Also, it is important to note that each `<MasonryItem />` accepts only one element.

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/BasicMasonry.js", "bg": true}}

## Image Masonry

> `<Masonry />` orders its children by row. If you would like to order images by column, you can use `<ImageList variant="masonry" />`, whose more details can be found in [Masonry Image List](https://next.material-ui.com/components/image-list/#masonry-image-list).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`<Masonry />` orders its children by row. If you would like to order images by column, you can use `<ImageList variant="masonry" />`. More details on this component can be found in [Masonry Image List](https://next.material-ui.com/components/image-list/#masonry-image-list).
```

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/ImageMasonry.js", "bg": true}}

## Columns

By passing `columns` to `<Masonry />`, you can configure the number of columns of your masonry.

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/FixedColumns.js", "bg": true}}

`columns` accepts responsive values:

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/ResponsiveColumns.js", "bg": true}}

## Spacing

By passing `spacing` to `<Masonry />`, you can configure the spacing between `<MasonryItem />`s.
It is important to note that `spacing` is a factor of the theme's spacing.

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/FixedSpacing.js", "bg": true}}

`spacing` accepts responsive values:

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/ResponsiveSpacing.js", "bg": true}}

## Column spanning

By passing `columnSpan` to `<MasonryItem />`, you can configure the number of columns taken up by each `<MasonryItem />`.

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/DiffColSizeMasonry.js", "bg": true}}

However, you have to choose the value of `columnSpan` for each item carefully or fine-tune heights of items so that your masonry does not break.

{{"demo": "pages/components/masonry/DiffColSizeMasonryBroken.js", "bg": true}}

## Server-side rendering

> By passing `height` to `<MasonryItem />`, you can use server-side rendering. By default, `height: 100%` will be set to the content of `<MasonryItem />`. If you change this, there can be unwanted gap between `<MasonryItem />` and the content that you pass to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By passing `defaultHeight` to `<MasonryItem />`, you can use server-side rendering. By default, `height: 100%` will be set to the content of `<MasonryItem />`. If you change this, there can be unwanted gap between `<MasonryItem />` and the content that you pass to it.
```

---
title: React Masonry component
components: Masonry, MasonryItem
githubLabel: 'component: Masonry'
---

# Masonry

<p class="description">Masonry lays out contents of different sizes as blocks of the same width and variable height with configurable gaps.</p>

Masonry maintains a list of content blocks with a consistent width but variable height.
The contents are ordered by row.
If a row is already filled with the specified number of columns, the next item starts another row, and it is added to the shortest column.

> {{"component": "modules/components/ComponentLinkHeader.js", "design": true}}

Reviewer 4: **Off-topic** (not related to this PR directly)

I wonder if we should render the design kit links here. Same question for the Stack component.

Reviewer 5: I think it makes sense to have both components in the design kits - detachable components from where designers add their content. This way, the layer name "Stack" or "Masonry" respectively could be easily picked up by developers to know which API to use. Also, starting-point examples could be nice to have to understand how it works.

What do you think about this idea @danilo-leal

Reviewer 6: It's not clear to me how would I use that on the design tool. Figma would probably be better because of auto-layout but what about the other ones?! Is it a possibility to make a quick prototype for us to get a sense of it? Asking because I don't usually make into a component layout components such as these (stack, masonry, grid, etc).

Reviewer 4: Ok, I'm removing these links, for now
